# Using Bayesian State Space Models to Reconcile Historical GDP Estimates

The object of this exercise is to try to reconcile historical GDP 
estimates by optimally combining them using state space models.

Given a series of measures of GDP such as $GDP_i$, $GDP_e$, and 
$GDP_o$, for the income, expenditure, and output approaches to measuring GDP, we might like to optimally combine them to get a series $GDP_c$ that reflects the measurement efforts of multiple scholars. Many attempts to combine GDP measurements exist, and here we follow the approach of Aruoba et. al. as they designed the state-space estimator for GDPPlus as implemented by the Philadelphia Federal Reserve.

We stack our GDP measures into a vector $Y_t$ measured over time periods $t$ to $T$. We assume that our measurements of GDP are generated by true GDP, but are corrupted by noise:

$$
Y_t = [1, 1, 1]' x_t + \epsilon_t.
$$

True GDP itself is latent but moves autoregressively:

$$
x_t = \mu (1 - \rho) + \rho x_{t-1} + \eta_t.
$$

An important consideration is the covariance structure of our measurements of GDP. It is reasonable to think that they are likely to be correlated, thus we model the covariance of our system as block-diagonal in the signals, so that the 4 $\times$ 4 matrix $\Sigma$ has zeros in rows 2:4 of column 1, and in columns 2:4 of row 1.

We are unfortunately constrained initially to a block-diagonal formulation 
so that the system remains identifiable. Aruoba et. al. suggest two approaches to relaxing this assumption which I will try to incorporate later.